IMPLEMENTATION_SUMMARY.md, before:

# Supabase Authentication Implementation Summary

## What Was Done

I've successfully implemented Supabase authentication in your Financial Progress Portal, replacing the old username/password system with a modern, secure authentication flow.

## Files Created

### 1. `frontend/.env.example`
Template for frontend environment variables. You need to create `frontend/.env` based on this.

### 2. `frontend/src/supabaseClient.js`
Complete Supabase client initialization with helper functions:
- `signUp()` - Register new users
- `signIn()` - Login existing users
- `signOut()` - Logout users
- `getSession()` - Get current session
- `resetPassword()` - Send password reset email
- `validatePassword()` - Password strength validation
- `validateEmail()` - Email format validation

### 3. `SUPABASE_SETUP.md`
Comprehensive setup guide with step-by-step instructions, troubleshooting, and security best practices.

### 4. `IMPLEMENTATION_SUMMARY.md` (this file)
Overview of all changes made.

## Files Modified

### 1. `frontend/src/App.js`
**Major Changes:**
- ✅ Added Supabase imports and initialization
- ✅ Replaced axios interceptor to include Supabase JWT token
- ✅ Added authentication state management (user, session)
- ✅ Implemented three authentication modes:
  - **Registration Mode**: Full name, email, password, confirm password with validation
  - **Login Mode**: Email, password with forgot password link
  - **Forgot Password Mode**: Email-based password reset
- ✅ Added password visibility toggles (eye icon)
- ✅ Added password strength indicator
- ✅ Added session check on app mount
- ✅ Added auth state change listener
- ✅ Added logout button to dashboard header
- ✅ Replaced clientId with Supabase user.id throughout

**Features:**
- Email verification check (prevents unverified users from logging in)
- Clear error messages for all scenarios
- Success messages with auto-redirect
- Loading states for all auth operations
- Password strength validation (8+ chars, 1 number, 1 special char)
- Password match validation
- Email format validation

### 2. `frontend/src/App.css`
**Added Styles For:**
- Password input containers with toggle button
- Auth error/success messages
- Password strength indicator
- Password match error messages
- Auth mode toggle links
- Forgot password link
- Improved responsive design for auth forms

### 3. `backend/middleware/auth.js`
**Complete Rewrite:**
- ✅ Removed custom JWT implementation
- ✅ Added Supabase client initialization (service role)
- ✅ Updated `requireAuth()` to verify Supabase JWT tokens from Authorization header
- ✅ Updated `requireAdmin()` to check role from user metadata
- ✅ Kept `ensureClientOwnership()` for protecting user-specific routes
- ✅ Removed deprecated `generateToken()` and `authenticateToken()`

**How It Works:**
1. Frontend sends JWT token in `Authorization: Bearer <token>` header
2. Backend verifies token with Supabase using service role key
3. Extracts user info (id, email, name, role) from token
4. Attaches to `req.user` for use in route handlers

### 4. `backend/server.js`
**Changes:**
- ✅ Updated imports to use new auth middleware
- ✅ Removed old `/api/auth/login` route
- ✅ Removed old `/api/auth/register` route
- ✅ Removed old `/api/auth/logout` route
- ✅ Removed old `/api/auth/forgot-password` route
- ✅ Added new `/api/auth/me` endpoint to get current user info
- ✅ All protected routes now use Supabase JWT verification

**Note:** Some unused imports (bcrypt, loginLimiter, etc.) are still present but can be cleaned up later.

## Next Steps - IMPORTANT!

### Step 1: Install Dependencies

```bash
# Frontend
cd frontend
npm install @supabase/supabase-js

# Backend
cd frontend
npm install @supabase/supabase-js
```

### Step 2: Set Up Environment Variables

#### Frontend (.env)
Create `frontend/.env`:
```bash
REACT_APP_SUPABASE_URL=https://your-project.supabase.co
REACT_APP_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your-anon-key-here
REACT_APP_API_BASE=https://plaid-financial-system-api.onrender.com
```

#### Backend (.env)
Update `backend/.env` to include:
```bash
SUPABASE_URL=https://your-project.supabase.co
SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your-anon-key-here
SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=your-service-role-key-here

# Keep all your existing variables (PLAID_*, etc.)
```

**Where to Find These Values:**
1. Go to your Supabase project dashboard
2. Click on "Settings" (gear icon)
3. Go to "API"
4. Copy:
   - Project URL → `SUPABASE_URL`
   - `anon` `public` key → `SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`
   - `service_role` `secret` key → `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`

### Step 3: Test the Application

```bash
# Start frontend
cd frontend
npm start

# Start backend (in another terminal)
cd backend
npm start
```

### Step 4: Create Your Advisor Account

**Option 1 - Through UI (Recommended):**
1. Go to http://localhost:3000
2. Click "Sign up"
3. Fill in your details and create account
4. Check your email and verify your account
5. Log in

**Then set your role to advisor:**
1. Go to Supabase Dashboard → Authentication → Users
2. Click on your user
3. Edit "User Metadata"
4. Add:
   ```json
   {
     "name": "Your Name",
     "role": "advisor"
   }
   ```
5. Save

### Step 5: Verify Everything Works

Test each feature:
- [ ] Sign up with a new account
- [ ] Receive and verify email
- [ ] Login with verified account
- [ ] Login fails with unverified account
- [ ] Forgot password sends email
- [ ] Password reset works
- [ ] Logout clears session
- [ ] Dashboard loads with user data
- [ ] Can connect banks (Plaid still works)
- [ ] Admin routes work for advisor account

## Authentication Flow

### Registration:
1. User fills in name, email, password
2. Password strength is validated
3. Supabase creates user account
4. Verification email is sent
5. User clicks verification link
6. User can now login

### Login:
1. User enters email and password
2. Supabase verifies credentials
3. Check if email is verified
4. If verified → get JWT token
5. Token is stored in Supabase client
6. Token is sent with all API requests
7. Backend verifies token for each request

### Logout:
1. User clicks logout button
2. Supabase signs out user
3. Token is cleared
4. Redirect to login page

### Protected API Endpoints:
1. Frontend makes request with `Authorization: Bearer <token>` header
2. Backend middleware (`requireAuth`) verifies token with Supabase
3. Extracts user info and attaches to `req.user`
4. Route handler uses `req.user.clientId` for data access
5. `ensureClientOwnership` ensures users can only access their own data
6. `requireAdmin` ensures only advisors can access admin routes

## Security Features

✅ **Email Verification Required** - Users must verify email before logging in
✅ **Password Strength Validation** - Min 8 chars, 1 number, 1 special char
✅ **JWT Token Verification** - All API requests verified with Supabase
✅ **Role-Based Access Control** - Advisors have admin access
✅ **Row-Level Security** - Users can only access their own data
✅ **Secure Token Storage** - Tokens managed by Supabase client
✅ **HTTPS Only in Production** - Secure communication

## Migration Notes

### What Changed:
- **User ID**: Old custom `clientId` → Supabase `user.id` (UUID)
- **Authentication**: Custom JWT → Supabase JWT
- **Password Storage**: bcrypt in database → Supabase managed
- **Session Management**: Cookies → Supabase client storage
- **User Metadata**: Database fields → Supabase user_metadata

### What Stayed the Same:
- All Plaid functionality works exactly the same
- Dashboard, transactions, investments unchanged
- Admin dashboard works the same (just uses Supabase auth now)
- All API endpoints work the same (just verify different tokens)

## Troubleshooting

### "Missing Supabase environment variables"
→ Make sure `.env` files exist in both frontend and backend directories

### "Please verify your email first"
→ Check your email inbox for verification link from Supabase

### "Invalid or expired token"
→ Check backend `.env` has correct `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`

### "Admin access required"
→ Set `role: "advisor"` in user metadata in Supabase dashboard

### CORS errors
→ Update CORS configuration in `backend/server.js` to include your frontend URL

## Files You Can Clean Up Later

These files/code are no longer needed but left for safety:
- Old test user creation routes in `backend/server.js`
- `bcrypt` dependency (can be removed from package.json)
- Old rate limiters (loginLimiter, registerLimiter, forgotPasswordLimiter)
- Any old Client model fields: username, password, role

## Need Help?

Refer to `SUPABASE_SETUP.md` for detailed setup instructions and troubleshooting.

For Supabase-specific questions, check: https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth

---

**Implementation completed successfully!** 🎉

All frontend and backend code has been updated to use Supabase authentication. Follow the Next Steps above to get everything running.

Commit message:

refactor: migrate to Supabase JWT auth and update documentation

IMPLEMENTATION_SUMMARY.md, after:

# Supabase Authentication Implementation Summary

## What Was Done

This document summarizes the migration from a legacy cookie-based authentication system to a modern JWT-based flow using Supabase.

## Files Created

### 1. `frontend/.env.example`
Template for frontend environment variables. You need to create `frontend/.env` based on this.

### 2. `frontend/src/supabaseClient.js`
Complete Supabase client initialization with helper functions:
- `signUp()` - Register new users
- `signIn()` - Login existing users
- `signOut()` - Logout users
- `getSession()` - Get current session
- `resetPassword()` - Send password reset email
- `validatePassword()` - Password strength validation
- `validateEmail()` - Email format validation

### 3. `SUPABASE_SETUP.md`
Comprehensive setup guide with step-by-step instructions, troubleshooting, and security best practices.

### 4. `IMPLEMENTATION_SUMMARY.md` (this file)
Overview of all changes made.

## Files Modified

### 1. `frontend/src/App.js`
**Major Changes:**
- ✅ Added Supabase imports and initialization
- ✅ Added authentication state management (user, session)
- ✅ Implemented three authentication modes:
  - **Registration Mode**: Full name, email, password, confirm password with validation
  - **Login Mode**: Email, password with forgot password link
  - **Forgot Password Mode**: Email-based password reset
- ✅ Added password visibility toggles (eye icon)
- ✅ Added password strength indicator
- ✅ Added session check on app mount
- ✅ Added auth state change listener
- ✅ Added logout button to dashboard header
- ✅ Replaced clientId with Supabase user.id throughout

**Features:**
- Email verification check (prevents unverified users from logging in)
- Clear error messages for all scenarios
- Success messages with auto-redirect
- Loading states for all auth operations
- Password strength validation (8+ chars, 1 number, 1 special char)
- Password match validation
- Email format validation

### 2. `frontend/src/App.css`
**Added Styles For:**
- Password input containers with toggle button
- Auth error/success messages
- Password strength indicator
- Password match error messages
- Auth mode toggle links
- Forgot password link
- Improved responsive design for auth forms

### 3. `backend/middleware/auth.js`
**Complete Rewrite:**
- ✅ Removed custom JWT implementation
- ✅ Added Supabase client initialization (service role)
- ✅ Updated `requireAuth()` to verify Supabase JWT tokens from Authorization header
- ✅ Updated `requireAdmin()` to check role from user metadata
- ✅ Kept `ensureClientOwnership()` for protecting user-specific routes
- ✅ Removed deprecated `generateToken()` and `authenticateToken()`

**How It Works:**
1. Frontend sends JWT token in `Authorization: Bearer <token>` header
2. Backend verifies token with Supabase using service role key
3. Extracts user info (id, email, name, role) from token
4. Attaches to `req.user` for use in route handlers

### 4. `backend/server.js`
**Changes:**
- ✅ Updated imports to use new auth middleware
- ✅ Removed old `/api/auth/login` route
- ✅ Removed old `/api/auth/register` route
- ✅ Removed old `/api/auth/logout` route
- ✅ Removed old `/api/auth/forgot-password` route
- ✅ All protected routes now use Supabase JWT verification

## Next Steps - IMPORTANT!

### Step 1: Install Dependencies

```bash
# Frontend
cd frontend
npm install @supabase/supabase-js

# Backend
cd frontend
npm install @supabase/supabase-js
```

### Step 2: Set Up Environment Variables

#### Frontend (.env)
Create `frontend/.env`:
```bash
REACT_APP_SUPABASE_URL=your_supabase_url
REACT_APP_SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your_supabase_anon_key
REACT_APP_API_BASE=https://plaid-financial-system-api.onrender.com
```

#### Backend (.env)
Update `backend/.env` to include:
```bash
SUPABASE_URL=https://your-project.supabase.co
SUPABASE_ANON_KEY=your-anon-key-here
SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY=your-service-role-key-here

# Keep all your existing variables (PLAID_*, etc.)
```

**Where to Find These Values:**
1. Go to your Supabase project dashboard
2. Click on "Settings" (gear icon)
3. Go to "API"
4. Copy:
   - Project URL → `SUPABASE_URL`
   - `anon` `public` key → `SUPABASE_ANON_KEY`
   - `service_role` `secret` key → `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`

### Step 3: Test the Application

```bash
# Start frontend
cd frontend
npm start

# Start backend (in another terminal)
cd backend
npm start
```

### Step 4: Create Your Advisor Account

**Option 1 - Through UI (Recommended):**
1. Go to http://localhost:3000
2. Click "Sign up"
3. Fill in your details and create account
4. Check your email and verify your account
5. Log in

**Then set your role to advisor:**
1. Go to Supabase Dashboard → Authentication → Users
2. Click on your user
3. Edit "User Metadata"
4. Add:
   ```json
   {
     "name": "Your Name",
     "role": "advisor"
   }
   ```
5. Save

### Step 5: Verify Everything Works

Test each feature:
- [ ] Sign up with a new account
- [ ] Receive and verify email
- [ ] Login with verified account
- [ ] Login fails with unverified account
- [ ] Forgot password sends email
- [ ] Password reset works
- [ ] Logout clears session
- [ ] Dashboard loads with user data
- [ ] Can connect banks (Plaid still works)
- [ ] Admin routes work for advisor account

## Authentication Flow

### Registration:
1. User fills in name, email, password
2. Password strength is validated
3. Supabase creates user account
4. Verification email is sent
5. User clicks verification link
6. User can now login

### Login:
1. User enters email and password
2. Supabase verifies credentials
3. Check if email is verified
4. If verified → get JWT token
5. Token is stored in Supabase client
6. Token is sent with all API requests
7. Backend verifies token for each request

### Logout:
1. User clicks logout button
2. Supabase signs out user
3. Token is cleared
4. Redirect to login page

### Protected API Endpoints:
1. Frontend makes request with `Authorization: Bearer <token>` header
2. Backend middleware (`requireAuth`) verifies token with Supabase
3. Extracts user info and attaches to `req.user`
4. Route handler uses `req.user.clientId` for data access
5. `ensureClientOwnership` ensures users can only access their own data
6. `requireAdmin` ensures only advisors can access admin routes

## Security Features

✅ **Email Verification Required** - Users must verify email before logging in
✅ **Password Strength Validation** - Min 8 chars, 1 number, 1 special char
✅ **JWT Token Verification** - All API requests verified with Supabase
✅ **Role-Based Access Control** - Advisors have admin access
✅ **Row-Level Security** - Users can only access their own data
✅ **Secure Token Storage** - Tokens managed by Supabase client
✅ **HTTPS Only in Production** - Secure communication

## Migration Notes

### What Changed:
- **User ID**: Old custom `clientId` → Supabase `user.id` (UUID)
- **Authentication**: Custom JWT → Supabase JWT
- **Password Storage**: bcrypt in database → Supabase managed
- **Session Management**: Cookies → Supabase client storage
- **User Metadata**: Database fields → Supabase user_metadata

### What Stayed the Same:
- All Plaid functionality works exactly the same
- Dashboard, transactions, investments unchanged
- Admin dashboard works the same (just uses Supabase auth now)
- All API endpoints work the same (just verify different tokens)

## Troubleshooting

### "Missing Supabase environment variables"
→ Make sure `.env` files exist in both frontend and backend directories

### "Please verify your email first"
→ Check your email inbox for verification link from Supabase

### "Invalid or expired token"
→ Check backend `.env` has correct `SUPABASE_SERVICE_ROLE_KEY`

### "Admin access required"
→ Set `role: "advisor"` in user metadata in Supabase dashboard

### CORS errors
→ Update CORS configuration in `backend/server.js` to include your frontend URL

## Files You Can Clean Up Later

These files/code are no longer needed but left for safety:
- Old test user creation routes in `backend/server.js`
- `bcrypt` dependency (can be removed from package.json)
- Old rate limiters (loginLimiter, registerLimiter, forgotPasswordLimiter)
- Any old Client model fields: username, password, role

## Need Help?

Refer to `SUPABASE_SETUP.md` for detailed setup instructions and troubleshooting.

For Supabase-specific questions, check: https://supabase.com/docs/guides/auth

---

**Implementation completed successfully!** 🎉

All frontend and backend code has been updated to use Supabase authentication. Follow the Next Steps above to get everything running.
